k6 `v0.51.0` is here 🎉! This release includes:

- (_optional_) `<highlight of breaking changes>`
- `<Summary of new features>` (_one or multiple bullets_)


## Breaking changes

- `#pr`, `<small_break_1>`
- `#pr`, `<small_break_2>`

### (_optional h3_) `<big_breaking_change>` `#pr`

### Browser APIs to Async

In the last release notes we mentioned this breaking change, and we wanted to remind and update you on the plan. In the **next** release, most of the synchronous browser APIs will be migrated to be asynchronous (promisifying them). We expect this will affect most if not all of our users.

This breaking change will require you to add `await` in front of most of the browser module APIs. Without this `await` you will witness undocumented and unknown behavior during the runtime. To make the migration simpler we advise that you work with the latest [k6 type definitions](https://grafana.com/docs/k6/latest/set-up/configure-k6-intellisense/).

You can find a list of all the APIs that we expect to convert to async in a comment in issue [browser#428](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/428#issuecomment-1964020837).

Awaiting on something that’s not a thenable just returns that value, which means you can add the `await` keyword today on the APIs that will become async to future proof your test scripts.

Here are the reasons for making this large breaking change:

1. Most browser APIs use some form of long-running IO operation (networking) to perform the requested action on the web browser against the website under test. We need to avoid blocking JavaScript's runtime event loop for such operations.
2. We're going to add more asynchronous event-based APIs (such as [page.on](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/issues/1227)) that our current synchronous APIs would block.
3. To align with how developers expect to work with JavaScript APIs.
4. To have better compatibility with Playwright.

## New features

_optional intro here_

### Introduction of `k6/experimental/streams` module #3696

This release of k6 introduces the new `k6/experimental/streams` module, which partially supports the JavaScript
Streams API, focusing initially on the `ReadableStream` construct.

With the `ReadableStream`, users can define and consume data streams within k6 scripts. This is particularly useful for
efficiently handling large datasets or for processing data sequentially in a controlled flow.

#### Limitations

This initial implementation is an experimental feature and does not include support for the whole Streams API feature set. 

Currently, users can define and consume readable streams . However, this release does not include support for byte readers
and controllers, nor does it include support the `tee`, `pipeTo`, and
`pipeThrough` methods of the `ReadableStream` object.

#### Example: streaming numbers 

The following example demonstrates creating and consuming a simple stream that emits numbers until it reaches a predfined
limit:

```javascript
import { ReadableStream } from 'k6/experimental/streams'
import { setTimeout } from 'k6/timers'

function numbersStream() {
    let currentNumber = 0

	return new ReadableStream({
		start(controller) {
			const fn = () => {
				if (currentNumber < 5) {
					controller.enqueue(++currentNumber)
					setTimeout(fn, 1000)
					return;
				}

				controller.close()
			}
			setTimeout(fn, 1000)
		},
	})
}

export default async function () {
	const stream = numbersStream()
	const reader = stream.getReader()

	while (true) {
		const { done, value } = await reader.read()
		if (done) break
		console.log(`received number ${value} from stream`)
	}

	console.log('we are done')
}
```

For more advanced examples, please head to the MDN Web Docs on the [Streams API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API).


### `<big_feature_n>` `#pr`

_what, why, and what this means for the user_

## UX improvements and enhancements

_Format as `<number> <present_verb> <object>. <credit>`_:

- [browser#1259](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1259), [browser#1260](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1260) adds errors to the traces that the browser module generates.

## Bug fixes

- [browser#1261](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1261) fixes dispose context canceled errors.
- [browser#1254](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1254) fixes an indefinite wait when testing websites with iframes.

## Maintenance and internal improvements

- [browser#1262](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1262) fixes a flaky test.
- [browser#1264](https://github.com/grafana/xk6-browser/pull/1264) removes unimplemented APIs.

## _Optional_ Roadmap

_Discussion of future plans_

